README.md, before:

# IlluStory

IlluStory is a frontend for chatting with LLMs. Still in development.

## Installation

#### 1. (Optional) Install [Automatic1111's Web UI](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

#### 1-1. Run Automatic1111's Web UI with --api option.

_webui-user.bat_

```bat
set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--xformers --api --autolaunch
```

#### 2. (Optional) Install [Oobabooga's Text generation web UI](https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui)

#### 2-1. Run oobabooga's Text generation web UI with --api option

_CMD_FLAGS.txt_

```bat
--api
```

#### 3. Download IlluStory from https://github.com/Julian-adv/IlluStory/releases, run IlluStory.

#### 4. (Developers only) Clone this repository, run:

```sh
npm install
npm run tauri dev
```

#### 5. Enter your OpenAI API Key in settings

![Settings API](screenshots/screen-api-key.png)

#### 6. Enter your DeepL API key in settings (if you want automatic translation)

![Settings API](screenshots/setting-deepl-key.png)

#### 6. Write story settings

![Write tab description 1](screenshots/write-tab1.png)

1. Select this tab to write a story.
1. Select an image to represent this story. It will be shown at home tab.
1. Title of this story
1. Choose API. It currently supports **OpenAI**, **oobabooga** (local).
1. API URL. You may need to change this when using other service.
1. Choose model
1. Set parameters for the model
1. Context size of this model
1. Load settings from a file.
1. Save the current story settings to a file.
1. If checked, any changes to the settings will be saved to a file.

![Write tab description 2](screenshots/write-tab2.png)

12. Enter prompt which instruct AI to summarize contents (Shown example are from https://arca.live/b/characterai/81013044)
1. Choose a role for this prompt. You can choose **System**, **Assistant**, **User**.
1. Enter prompt. You need to include a instruction like this to generate images: _Add a visual summary at the end of the output. It's crucial to include details about \<char>'s look, clothing, stance, and nearby setting. The description should be short phrases inside \<Visual> and \</Visual>. For example: \<Visual>brown hair, shirt, pants, sitting on a chair\</Visual>_
1. This prompt chose Assistant as the role.
1. Choose pseudo role **Char setting** to describe about the character.
   Char's name will replace {{char}} or \<char> in all prompts. Char's gender will replace {{char_gender}} or \<char_gender> in all prompt.
1. Choose pseudo role **User setting** to describe about the user.
   User's name will replace {{user}} or \<user> in all prompts. User's gender will replace {{user_gender}} or \<user_gender> in all prompt.
1. **Start story** pseudo role marks the begining of the story. Prompts below this mark will be presented to the user.
1. First scene of this story.
   Visual description of the scene enclosed \<Visual> \</Visual>. This shows an example for the LLM.
1. To add more prompts, press this button. You can change the order of prompts by dragging a prompt.
1. To delete a prompt.

#### 7. Play the story

![Play tab description](screenshots/play-tab.png)

1. Press play tab
1. If you move mouse over an image, prompt used to generate the image are shown as tooltip.
1. First message of story is shown here. You can customize font, color, etc in settings tab.
1. To regenerate the image, press this.
1. To save current image to a file, press this.
1. If your prompt starts with ", user name will be prefixed automatically.
1. Current token counts are shown here.
1. Start new session
1. Save current session to a file
1. Go back to previous prompt. Press it if you want different AI response.
1. If total tokens approach the model's context size, press this. It will summarize the conversation thus reduce token counts.
1. Select role
1. Write your dialogue here.

Commit message:

Version 0.7.1
* Fix broken open ai chat(invalid role)
* Start card loading dialog at app data directory
* Copy default cards to app data dir
* Show settings tab if settings not exists
* Go to appropriate tab when a card clicked
* Fix bug in total token (character editing tab)

README.md, after:

# IlluStory

IlluStory is a frontend for chatting with LLMs. This focuses on generating images from
[Automatic1111's Web UI](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui) and
showing them alongside text generated by Open AI or
[oobabooga](https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui).

## Installation

#### 1. (Optional) Install [Automatic1111's Web UI](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

#### 1-1. Run Automatic1111's Web UI with --api option.

_webui-user.bat_

```bat
set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--xformers --api --autolaunch
```

#### 2. (Optional) Install [Oobabooga's Text generation web UI](https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui)

#### 2-1. Run oobabooga's Text generation web UI with --api option

_CMD_FLAGS.txt_

```bat
--api
```

#### 3. Download IlluStory from https://github.com/Julian-adv/IlluStory/releases, run IlluStory.

#### 4. (Developers only) Clone this repository, run:

```sh
npm install
npm run tauri dev
```

#### 5. Enter your OpenAI API Key in settings

![Settings API](screenshots/screen-api-key.png)

#### 6. Enter your DeepL API key in settings (if you want automatic translation)

![Settings API](screenshots/setting-deepl-key.png)

#### 6. Write story settings

![Write tab description 1](screenshots/write-tab1.png)

1. Select this tab to write a story.
1. Select an image to represent this story. It will be shown at home tab.
1. Title of this story
1. Choose API. It currently supports **OpenAI**, **oobabooga** (local).
1. API URL. You may need to change this when using other service.
1. Choose model
1. Set parameters for the model
1. Context size of this model
1. Load settings from a file.
1. Save the current story settings to a file.
1. If checked, any changes to the settings will be saved to a file.

![Write tab description 2](screenshots/write-tab2.png)

12. Enter prompt which instruct AI to summarize contents (Shown example are from https://arca.live/b/characterai/81013044)
1. Choose a role for this prompt. You can choose **System**, **Assistant**, **User**.
1. Enter prompt. You need to include a instruction like this to generate images: _Add a visual summary at the end of the output. It's crucial to include details about \<char>'s look, clothing, stance, and nearby setting. The description should be short phrases inside \<Visual> and \</Visual>. For example: \<Visual>brown hair, shirt, pants, sitting on a chair\</Visual>_
1. This prompt chose Assistant as the role.
1. Choose pseudo role **Char setting** to describe about the character.
   Char's name will replace {{char}} or \<char> in all prompts. Char's gender will replace {{char_gender}} or \<char_gender> in all prompt.
1. Choose pseudo role **User setting** to describe about the user.
   User's name will replace {{user}} or \<user> in all prompts. User's gender will replace {{user_gender}} or \<user_gender> in all prompt.
1. **Start story** pseudo role marks the begining of the story. Prompts below this mark will be presented to the user.
1. First scene of this story.
   Visual description of the scene enclosed \<Visual> \</Visual>. This shows an example for the LLM.
1. To add more prompts, press this button. You can change the order of prompts by dragging a prompt.
1. To delete a prompt.

#### 7. Play the story

![Play tab description](screenshots/play-tab.png)

1. Press play tab
1. If you move mouse over an image, prompt used to generate the image are shown as tooltip.
1. First message of story is shown here. You can customize font, color, etc in settings tab.
1. To regenerate the image, press this.
1. To save current image to a file, press this.
1. If your prompt starts with ", user name will be prefixed automatically.
1. Current token counts are shown here.
1. Start new session
1. Save current session to a file
1. Go back to previous prompt. Press it if you want different AI response.
1. If total tokens approach the model's context size, press this. It will summarize the conversation thus reduce token counts.
1. Select role
1. Write your dialogue here.
